\chapter{Automated Discovery / Priv Esc checker}

\subsection{PowerUp / sharpUp}
\href{https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/master/Privesc/PowerUp.ps1}{PowerUp}
is a PowerShell script for finding common Windows privilege escalation vectors that
rely on misconfigurations. It can also be used to exploit some of the issues
found.

\href{https://github.com/GhostPack/SharpUp}{SharpUp} is a \verb+C#+ version of
PowerUp.


\subsection{Watson}

\href{https://github.com/rasta-mouse/Watson}{Watson} is a .NET tool designed to
enumerate missing KBs and suggest exploits for Privilege Escalation
vulnerabilities.

\subsection{Seatbelt}

\href{https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt}{Seatbelt} is \verb+C#+ project for
performing a wide variety of local privilege escalation checks


\href{https://github.com/carlospolop/winPE/tree/master/binaries/seatbelt}{Compiled version}

\subsection{Jaws}

\href{https://github.com/411Hall/JAWS}{Jaws} is PowerShell script for
enumerating privilege escalation vectors written in PowerShell 2.0

\subsection{WinPEAS}
\href{https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/winPEAS}{WinPEAS}
is a script that searches for possible paths to escalate privileges on Windows
hosts. All of the checks are explained
\href{https://book.hacktricks.xyz/windows/checklist-windows-privilege-escalation}{here}


\subsection{SessionGopher}
\href{https://github.com/Arvanaghi/SessionGopher}{SessionGopher} is a
PowerShell tool that finds and decrypts saved session information for remote
access tools. It extracts PuTTY, WinSCP, SuperPuTTY, FileZilla, and RDP saved
session information.

\subsection{LaZagne}
\href{https://github.com/AlessandroZ/LaZagne}{LaZagne} is a tool used for
retrieving passwords stored on a local machine from web browsers, chat tools,
databases, Git, email, memory dumps, PHP, sysadmin tools, wireless network
configurations, internal Windows password storage mechanisms, and more

\subsection{Windows Exploit Suggester - Next Generation}
\href{https://github.com/bitsadmin/wesng}{WES-NG} is a tool based on the output
of Windows' systeminfo utility which provides the list of vulnerabilities the
OS is vulnerable to, including any exploits for these vulnerabilities. Every
Windows OS between Windows XP and Windows 10, including their Windows Server
counterparts, is supported.

