
\section{Processes}

\subsection{Sysinternals Tools}
The \href{https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals}{SysInternals Tools}
suite is a set of portable Windows applications that can be used to administer
Windows systems (for the most part without requiring installation). The tools
can be either downloaded from the Microsoft website or by loading them directly
from an internet-accessible file share by typing
\verb+\\live.sysinternals.com\tools+ into a Windows Explorer window.

The suite includes tools such as \emph{Process Explorer}, an enhanced version
of \emph{Task Manager}, and \emph{Process Monito}, which can be used to monitor
file system, registry, and network activity related to any process running on
the system. Some additional tools are TCPView, which is used to monitor
internet activity, and PSExec, which can be used to manage/connect to systems
via the SMB protocol remotely.

\subsection{Process Explorer}

Process Explorer is a part of the Sysinternals tool suite. This tool can show
which handles and DLL processes are loaded when a program runs. Process
Explorer shows a list of currently running processes, and from there, we can
see what handles the process has selected in one view or the DLLs and
memory-swapped files that have been loaded in another view. We can also search
within the tool to show which processes tie back to a specific handle or DLL.
The tool can also be used to analyze parent-child process relationships to see
what child processes are spawned by an application and help troubleshoot any
issues such as orphaned processed that can be left behind when a process is
terminated.