\chapter{Active Directory Enumeration  Attacks Tool}

\begin{xltabular}{\linewidth}{|l|X|}
    \hline
Tool &	Description\\
    \hline
PowerView/SharpView &	A PowerShell tool and a .NET port of the same used to
gain situational awareness in AD. These tools can be used as replacements for
various Windows net* commands and more. PowerView and SharpView can help us
gather much of the data that BloodHound does, but it requires more work to make
meaningful relationships among all of the data points. These tools are great
for checking what additional access we may have with a new set of credentials,
targeting specific users or computers, or finding some "quick wins" such as
users that can be attacked via Kerberoasting or ASREPRoasting.\\
    \hline
BloodHound &	Used to visually map out AD relationships and help plan attack
paths that may otherwise go unnoticed. Uses the SharpHound PowerShell or C\#
ingestor to gather data to later be imported into the BloodHound JavaScript
(Electron) application with a Neo4j database for graphical analysis of the AD
environment.\\
    \hline
SharpHound &	The C\# data collector to gather information from Active
Directory about varying AD objects such as users, groups, computers, ACLs,
GPOs, user and computer attributes, user sessions, and more. The tool produces
JSON files which can then be ingested into the BloodHound GUI tool for
analysis.\\
    \hline
BloodHound.py &	A Python-based BloodHound ingestor based on the Impacket
toolkit. It supports most BloodHound collection methods and can be run from a
non-domain joined attack host. The output can be ingested into the BloodHound
GUI for analysis.\\
    \hline
Kerbrute &	A tool written in Go that uses Kerberos Pre-Authentication to
enumerate Active Directory accounts, perform password spraying, and
brute-forcing.\\
    \hline
Impacket toolkit &	A collection of tools written in Python for interacting
with network protocols. The suite of tools contains various scripts for
enumerating and attacking Active Directory.\\
    \hline
Responder &	Responder is a purpose-built tool to poison LLMNR, NBT-NS, and
MDNS, with many different functions.\\
    \hline
Inveigh.ps1 &	Similar to Responder, a PowerShell tool for performing various
network spoofing and poisoning attacks.\\
    \hline
C\# Inveigh (InveighZero) &	The C\# version of Inveigh with a semi-interactive
console for interacting with captured data such as username and password
hashes.\\
    \hline
rpcclient &	A part of the Samba suite on Linux distributions that can be used
to perform a variety of Active Directory enumeration tasks via the remote RPC
service.\\
    \hline
CrackMapExec (CME) &	CME is an enumeration, attack, and post-exploitation
toolkit which can help us greatly in enumeration and performing attacks with
the data we gather. CME attempts to "live off the land" and abuse built-in AD
features and protocols like SMB, WMI, WinRM, and MSSQL.\\
    \hline
Rubeus &	Rubeus is a C\# tool built for Kerberos Abuse.\\
    \hline
GetUserSPNs.py &	Another Impacket module geared towards finding Service
Principal names tied to normal users.\\
    \hline
Hashcat &	A great hash cracking and password recovery tool.\\
    \hline
enum4linux &	A tool for enumerating information from Windows and Samba
systems.\\
    \hline
enum4linux-ng &	A rework of the original Enum4linux tool that works a bit
differently.\\
    \hline
ldapsearch &	Built-in interface for interacting with the LDAP protocol.\\
    \hline
windapsearch &	A Python script used to enumerate AD users, groups, and
computers using LDAP queries. Useful for automating custom LDAP queries.\\
    \hline
DomainPasswordSpray.ps1 &	DomainPasswordSpray is a tool written in PowerShell
to perform a password spray attack against users of a domain.\\
    \hline
LAPSToolkit &	The toolkit includes functions written in PowerShell that
leverage PowerView to audit and attack Active Directory environments that have
deployed Microsoft's Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS).\\
    \hline
smbmap &	SMB share enumeration across a domain.\\
    \hline
psexec.py &	Part of the Impacket toolkit, it provides us with Psexec-like
functionality in the form of a semi-interactive shell.\\
    \hline
wmiexec.py &	Part of the Impacket toolkit, it provides the capability of
command execution over WMI.\\
    \hline
Snaffler &	Useful for finding information (such as credentials) in Active
Directory on computers with accessible file shares.\\
    \hline
smbserver.py &	Simple SMB server execution for interaction with Windows hosts.
Easy way to transfer files within a network.\\
    \hline
setspn.exe &	Adds, reads, modifies and deletes the Service Principal Names
(SPN) directory property for an Active Directory service account.\\
    \hline
Mimikatz &	Performs many functions. Notably, pass-the-hash attacks, extracting
plaintext passwords, and Kerberos ticket extraction from memory on a host.\\
    \hline
secretsdump.py &	Remotely dump SAM and LSA secrets from a host.\\
    \hline
evil-winrm &	Provides us with an interactive shell on a host over the WinRM
protocol.\\
    \hline
mssqlclient.py &	Part of the Impacket toolkit, it provides the ability to
interact with MSSQL databases.\\
    \hline
noPac.py &	Exploit combo using CVE-2021-42278 and CVE-2021-42287 to
impersonate DA from standard domain user.\\
    \hline
rpcdump.py &	Part of the Impacket toolset, RPC endpoint mapper.\\
CVE-2021-1675.py &	Printnightmare PoC in python.\\
    \hline
ntlmrelayx.py &	Part of the Impacket toolset, it performs SMB relay attacks.\\
    \hline
PetitPotam.py &	PoC tool for CVE-2021-36942 to coerce Windows hosts to
authenticate to other machines via MS-EFSRPC EfsRpcOpenFileRaw or other
functions.\\
    \hline
gettgtpkinit.py &	Tool for manipulating certificates and TGTs.\\
    \hline
getnthash.py &	This tool will use an existing TGT to request a PAC for the
current user using U2U.\\
    \hline
adidnsdump &	A tool for enumerating and dumping DNS records from a domain.
Similar to performing a DNS Zone transfer.\\
    \hline
gpp-decrypt &	Extracts usernames and passwords from Group Policy preferences
files.\\
    \hline
GetNPUsers.py &	Part of the Impacket toolkit. Used to perform the ASREPRoasting
attack to list and obtain AS-REP hashes for users with the 'Do not require
Kerberos preauthentication' set. These hashes are then fed into a tool such as
Hashcat for attempts at offline password cracking.\\
    \hline
lookupsid.py &	SID bruteforcing tool.\\
    \hline
ticketer.py &	A tool for creation and customization of TGT/TGS tickets. It
can be used for Golden Ticket creation, child to parent trust attacks, etc.\\
raiseChild.py &	Part of the Impacket toolkit, It is a tool for automated child
to parent domain privilege escalation.\\
    \hline
Active Directory Explorer &	Active Directory Explorer (AD Explorer) is an AD
viewer and editor. It can be used to navigate an AD database and view object
properties and attributes. It can also be used to save a snapshot of an AD
database for offline analysis. When an AD snapshot is loaded, it can be
explored as a live version of the database. It can also be used to compare two
AD database snapshots to see changes in objects, attributes, and security
permissions.\\
    \hline
PingCastle &	Used for auditing the security level of an AD environment based
on a risk assessment and maturity framework (based on CMMI adapted to AD
security).\\
    \hline
Group3r &	Group3r is useful for auditing and finding security
misconfigurations in AD Group Policy Objects (GPO).\\
    \hline
ADRecon &	A tool used to extract various data from a target AD environment.
The data can be output in Microsoft Excel format with summary views and
analysis to assist with analysis and paint a picture of the environment's
overall security state.\\
    \hline
\end{xltabular}
